It's just the Whitney.
What he did.
Later in the day, in fact, it was on the telephone.
After I'd left Senator McCarthy at the World War
of my story, he told me that he had been hearing rumors.
And he said that he thought that there was some sort
that some of the press were going down
to Fort Stix to stir up trouble.
He asked me if I would be sure to check
and make sure that the staff was not
abusing any privilege that Secretary Stevens had given.
So if you accept the moment, that Senator McCarthy
did discuss the question of signs, active
discipline, and relationship with the staff,
and the subcommittee to shine later in the day.
Now, I'll ask you to turn to your memorandum date
of December 21, 1953 to Senator McCarthy.
Do you have that front?
Yes.
And did you dictate that memorandum?
And I'll read from it.
Following my conversation with you all
at the end of New York, I think you should know
that the staff of the subcommittee has not told foundation, time,
or service, except when necessary to the committee works.
Now, was it Senator McCarthy's telephone call
that prompted you to make this memorandum?
Yes, sir.
What?
Actually, was the telephone call from me to the senate?
If the senator asks you to look into the matter
and give him a report?
Yes, sir.
And you did look into it, and this memorandum
is you report to the senate?
Yes, in effect.
I also talked to him.
And Mr. Adams is not correct when he says
that the senator recommended you on the morning of Thursday,
December 17, with reference to the subcommittee staff
interventions on the air for sure and its dates.
That's right.
It's not so.
It's an air of that.
Now, on the question of your memorandum, Mr. Carp,
I will ask you if the purpose of your dictating
the various memorandum which are contained in the document
which I'm sure you're referring to now,
was to convey information, either to Senator McCarthy
or Mr. Coleman?
Yes, sir.
Convey information at other reasons.
And what are the reasons you did it in two days?
To make a record.
So the memorandum I had two purposes.
Is that correct?
My memorandum I guess.
Yes.
To convey information and for the purposes of keeping
correct?
Yes.
Did you attempt to dictate memorandum
concerning all of your contacts with Mr. Adams?
No, sir.
Was there any particular reason that you dictated the memorandum
which in fact appeared in this document which I have in my hand?
Yes, sir.
It's a reason for agent.
All right, now.
Let's turn to your memorandum dated January 9, 1954.
From yourself to Roy Coleman.
Did you dictate that memorandum?
Yes, sir.
Where were you when you dictated?
In San Diego, my father's office.
In Washington, Texas.
Where was Mr. Cole in New York?
Down that is the date.
If it not, Saturday, January 9, when you talked to Mr. Adams, who was in Emmer's Massachusetts.
Yes, sir.
That's correct.
And as I recall the testimony, that call concerned too.
Fact all.
One, the question of the insert for the annual report,
a relation to the change of the Army security problem.
Yes.
And secondly, private champion.
Is that correct?
Yes.
And I read from your memorandum.
Your memorandum.
I called John Adams about the question of the insert for the annual report.
The phrase of change of the Army security problem.
I also told him you had been trying to reach him about they not being free Sunday to
help with the report.
He was up in Emmer's Massachusetts, stated that he was slow bound, and that he couldn't
do the thing about it from Massachusetts.
I am sure that he doesn't want to do anything, but I told him he was thought.
I think he was up to him.
It is obvious that he doesn't want the part about Army laxity in the report.
So don't expect days to get off the hill.
If I correct, the review of memorandum is thought.
Yes, I.
Now, you knew I'd take it that Mr. Shine was assigned for KPJD the following day, Sunday January
10th.
Yes, sir.
And the purpose of your call among other things was to get private shine relieved from that
obligation.
No, sir.
It was not?
The purpose of my call was to discuss a matter concerning the annual report with Mr. Adams.
I had discussed it with his assistant, Mr. Haskins on the day before.
I wanted to get a, Mr. Haskins was not in a position of authority to give me an answer
to what I was interested in.
I called Mr. Adams.
The Shine memorandum, the Shine matter is an incidental to my call.
I merely told Mr. Adams as an incidental to my call that Mr. Cohn had been trying to
reach him.
Well, you've brought up the set of the Shine on that case.
I brought up the subject of Shine in the telephone call.
Did you ask Mr. Adams to attempt to secure a relief's private shine from the duty on the
following day?
No, I didn't.
The conversation went something like that.
I said that Mr. Cohn had been trying to reach Mr. Adams and that Mr. Shine had been
assigned some duty over the weekend.
And Mr. Cohn wanted him to work with him on the report.
I told him that Mr. Cohn would try to contact him.
And you dictated this memorandum to Mr. Cohn.
It was in New York on Saturday, January 9th.
And why did you insert in that memorandum?
It is obvious that he doesn't want the part about I'm elaxing him the report.
So don't expect these to get off the house.
I can't say why I inserted any particular part of this thing in here, any particular word.
As a matter of fact, I really ask you this, Mr. Cohn, why you trying to convey the
information to Mr. Cohn that a private shine would not be able to get off on the following
day?
No, sir.
I'd already conveyed this information to Mr. Cohn, my telephone before I wrote this
memorandum.
When I told Mr. Cohn, my telephone, that what concerning the conversation I had had
Mr. Adams, Mr. Cohn said, all right, he would call him.
He called him.
A long later in the day told me that he had called Mr. Adams at some in at Amherst, Massachusetts,
and that the phone had wrong.
He heard it ring several times.
He knew from the sound that somebody had picked up the receiver.
He said something like hello, John, John, and there was no answer.
He felt that from the sound that somebody hung up the receiver.
He told me that he was sure that Adams had been there and had received a call.
I didn't make much difference for me at that point.
Mr. Cohn said, how am I putting this in a memorandum?
I want to know.
I want to have this on record.
Mr. Cohn, the question.
That's not an answer.
So it wasn't for the purpose of conveying information to him on that particular day?
No, he had the information.
Mr. Cohn, I refer you to page 2573 of the record, which referred to your train ride with
Mr. Adams on November 25.
And I'll read from Mr. Adams' testimony.
The train takes about three hours, 45 minutes.
As I recall now, as I felt it began, 41 a half of our entire conversation was directed
to Shannon, and was filled with Mr. Cohn's observations to me.
To the effect that for so long, a shan was not said especially a sign.
Saddest factory in so far as Mr. Cohn was concerned that we were in trouble.
Mr. Cohn pointed out to me that he thought that he wasn't proposing this as an independent
proposal in my opinion.
But I felt that he was bashing on to me at the least.
He had that as long as the assignment of shan was not said as factory, we could expect
trouble.
Now, you recall that testimony.
Did you state on that occasion of that train ride on November 25 in Subway?
That was so long as the assignment of private shan in the army was unsatisfactory to Mr. Cohn
that the army was in trouble.
Yes, sir.
You deny making me such a stare, yes?
Using the words of Mr. Adams or the substance.
Yes.
You have testified, though, that the not-most car that the subject of shan was brought up on
that train ride.
Yes, sir.
Did it consume as Mr. Adams, as testified to nearly one half of your time?
No, sir.
I've testified to that this morning.
And you've already stated that there were numerous other subjects in the word conversation.
Now, in what manner was the subject of shan injected into your conversation?
On the train trip?
Yes, sir.
Yes, it followed the conversation we had concerning General Lawton.
Do you deny Mr. Cohn that you ever stated to Mr. Adams that as long as the assignment
or treatment of shan was unsatisfactory to Mr. Cohn that Cohn would make trouble for
the army?
Yes, sir.
I never made any statement to him.
He dawned this occasion not on the occasion of your luncheon on March the 5th.
Or any other time?
Yes, sir.
That's right.
And it took that small interview that the subject of shan was injected into these conversations
by Mr. Adams in the form of using shan as faith in an effort to hope the army's investigation
by this committee.
Yes, sir.
Is that how the subject of shan was injected into these conversations?
Into this train life conversation and the conversations I've specified to often times shan
came with this come up in conversation.
Now, you heard Mr. Adams just money did you not that on December 20th and on December 23th?
You fall.
Mr. Adams in South Dakota.
You recall it?
Yes, sir.
Did you tell a phone, Mr. Cohn, Mr. Adams, at his home in South Dakota on those two days
December 20th and December 23th?
So I recall talking to Mr. Adams in South Dakota on one day he says two days under
the guise of the military.
And what was the purpose of those calls?
Those calls had to do with General Adams.
Did the calls relate to private shan in any degree?
No, sir.
Was that subject brought up?
Not by me, sir.
Is it your testimony that the subject of private shan was interformed by Mr. Adams?
No, sir.
I don't recall private shan's name being mentioned in either of those phone calls that there were two.
But why do you state that Mr. Adams brought up that set?
No, I didn't state Mr. Adams brought it up.
I said I didn't bring up the set.
And if it was brought up, it was not brought up by you.
And if it was, that's correct.
Let me read from Mr. Adams' testimony, page 2594.
On the 20th of December I received a long distance call from Mr. Car, in which the set
date on the 20th of December and on the 23rd of December while I was in South Dakota,
I received a long distance call from Mr. Car.
On one and I think on both of the occasions, the principal sentence of the call seemed to
me to be shan.
And I restated that I had told them that if they were just wait until Christmas and
New Year, I would try and find out what was going to happen.
Mr. Jenkins, you say that in one or two calls the subject seemed to be shan.
Was there not shan discussed by Mr. Car?
Long distance while you were visiting your mother in two calls South Dakota.
Mr. Adams, it was and as I say, the principal sentence of one of the calls as I recall it
with shan.
My recollection is that both calls are looted with shan.
Now Mr. Car, do you now say that the principal purpose of neither of these calls was shan.
I know.
And you've been hired to stay for one by Mr. Adams to the contrary.
I'll give this to that.
I'll take that here.
Leave it here.
Mr. Car.
There's one other subject that I want to discuss with you and I believe we can do it for
four gentlemen.
And that is the subject number one.
How do I support by Mr. Shine subsequent to November 3,
while he was at Fort Decks?
I will ask you if Mr. Shine interviewed any witnesses while he was facing the Fort Decks
to your knowledge.
Yes sir.
Do you, do you records or memorandum kept in your office reflected?
I don't think they do.
There was no written data or memorandum kept to document any interviews which Mr. Shine made of witnesses
probably with the Fort Decks.
I don't know that.
Who assigned him to the test of interviewing with this is probably with the Fort Decks?
I don't know that he was assigned to the test of interviewing witnesses.
He had been working on the Fort Moments case along with the rest of us.
He had some informants.
He had one witness that I can readily recall that he interviewed.
I don't know that it was an assignment I think he might have been just a follow-through.
Why was Mr. Shine permitted to do that type of work while he was on duty at Fort Decks?
To understand that you have a staff of trained investigators, men with experience in the FBI?
Why was this young man with no appreciable prior experience in interviewing witnesses given that task?
Why was he permitted to do it?
Well, first of all, I might say that he was not permitted to do it while he was on duty at Fort Decks.
All of these things happened during his non-training hours.
I might also say that as far as that period of time is concerned, he had had prior experience in interviewing witnesses and investigation following his work on the information programs
and the virtual AmeriCorps investigation.
Is it the practice of your office when an investigator interviews a witness to make no written memoranda of his interviews?
No, sir. I don't want to say that it's the practice of the office.
It's the practice of the office to run itself as efficiently as possible.
Sometimes memorandum dictates sometimes they are. During the course of preparation for hearings, many times notes are maintained,
scribbled notes are used in interrogating witnesses.
Did you expect to use the information gathered by Private Shine?
It is interviews with these various witnesses.
We did use information at least one of them as I recall.
And how did you get that information from Private Shine?
I usually came through Mr. Colman.
And Private Shine was able to retain any of his heads all the information gathered from these witnesses, which he interviewed at Fort Decks without making any written memorandum.
Well, sir, is it a cheat test? No, sir. Is it a question?
Could I have a question, please?
Where are we?
I have a question.
The information gathered from these witnesses, which he interviewed at Fort Decks without making any written memorandum of his interviews.
Well, part of it, the first part of the question, Private Shine didn't retain any of his head. He conveyed it to Mr. Colman, who made use of it.
The second part, I don't recall that he interviewed these people at Fort Decks.
Well, this practice of interviewing witnesses who can make any memorandum of his interviews, is that consistently followed by other investigators?
It's not consistently followed by anyone. However, Mr. Colman very frequently makes a memorandum during the case of preparing for hearings, very frequently interviews are conducted.
And the information is received, which appears in the printed interview of the at the hearing. There is no need in many cases for memorandum prior to that time.
Mr. Colman, why weren't these interviews? The witnesses by Mr. Shine conducted while he was at Fort Decks, conducted before he entered the army.
Who knew he was going in the army?
Right, sir. Why weren't these?
If I understand your question, you want to know why weren't the interviews that he conducted after he was at Fort Decks, conducted prior to that time?
Yes, sir.
Prior to Mr. Shine's going into the army, I discussed with Mr. Colman and Senator McCarthy the fact that he would probably be in the army.
The main reason that I had for discussing it with them was the reports. The other information he had was valuable, but I was concerned with the reports.
I felt that if the end of the year came around and the interim reports and the annual report were not out, it would be a reflection on the committee and a reflection on me.
They advised me that Mr. that they had given this word to Mr. Bosslog.
And that Mr. Bosslog was going to write the reports.
It later developed that Mr. Bosslog was unable to write the reports through no fall of his own.
Information from Mr. Shine had in the possession was used in the staff and the rockatories of witnesses in October.
He cleaned up as much as he could at that point.
Now, you still haven't answered my question with Dr. Stude Shine's interviewing witnesses while he was in the army and stationed at Fort Decks.
These were, these as far as I could, I recall incidental matters, the prime reason, the prime work rather than he had was connected with the writing of the reports.
The only thing that he did or did not interview witnesses.
Yes, he did. He interviewed some witnesses.
When you say witnesses, I can think of one who was a witness, a man and others were confidential and fallen.
If you not have other investigators, that you're command to do that sort of work.
Yes, sir.
Was they fitting to do it?
Yes, sir, but this was more or less of a follow through on works that Mr. Shine had done before.
For instance, one of the persons he talked to insisted that he only talked with Mr. Shine.
These are things that happen in investigations.
It's your testimony that young Mr. Shine was indispensable to the work of the committee.
And that it was compelling that he interviewed witnesses after he was conducted in the army?
No, sir, it is not.
Why was it done?
As I have said, Mr. Shine did interview a few witnesses.
I can recall one off hand.
He interviewed informants with whom he had had contact a prior to his going into the army.
That was in the panel to his main task, which was preparing the report.
I had no further questions.
I mean, it was time to recess and tell the two of us.
Well done.
That's all.
You have Dr. Hart Chairman, Monday now.
And we'll be back to the next session of the hearing.
We'll be at 2 p.m.